halfway across the Pacific Ocean from
Hawaii off the coast of Costa Rica lie
the Cocos Islands what appear as tiny
dots of land above the water becomes
significant landmarks below these
towering sea mounts attract fish in
their millions deep ocean currents are
forced to the surface bringing nutrients
which feed the sprawling masses
[Music]
this many fish can't go unnoticed for
long
thousands of tuna devoured the smaller
fish and they draw in silky sharks from
far out in the open ocean
incredible numbers are driven here by
their voracious appetite for tuna
[Music]
hammerheads also gather around the
seamount in their hundreds but despite
the abundance of fish they're not here
for the food
for years scientists have been at a loss
to explain these mysterious
congregations once again the most
peculiar of sharks challenged the minds
of men
so what is it that brings these
magnificent sharks here in such
astonishing numbers there's all kinds of
reasons for animals to be in a school or
in an aggregation for instance we know
that here in Kaneohe Bay is a nursery
ground for the baby hammerheads the big
mothers come in they have their pups
they leave in the pups stay behind and
those pups stay in tight little schools
during the daytime in the murkiest part
of the bay hoping that nobody will
discover them and eat them and then at
night the school breaks up and off they
go to hunt by themselves and then the
next day they reform into these schools
it may well be
alt hammerhead after you've gone from
the bay out into the blue water that
being with the gang is something which
they grew up with for one of the better
word or in the case of when we find them
aggregated around a sea might it may be
more important to be a hammerhead at
that sea mount as a reference point
rather than to be with the rest of the
hammerheads they're just there for the
same reason you are not to be part of a
school but to be next to the sea mind
[Music]